1. List three data sources Power BI can connect to.

Microsoft Excel

SQL Server Database

Web API

2. What is the first step to import data into Power BI Desktop?

Click “Get Data” on the Home ribbon va ma’lumot manbasini tanlash.

3. How do you refresh imported data in Power BI?

Home → Refresh tugmasini bosish yoki Right-click → Refresh dataset ustida.

4. What file formats can Power BI import directly? (Name two.)

.xlsx (Excel)

.csv (Comma-Separated Values)

5. What does the "Navigator" window show after selecting a data source?

Manbadan olingan jadvallar yoki ma’lumotlar ro‘yxatini va Preview (oldindan ko‘rish) oynasini ko‘rsatadi.

6. Import Sales_Data.csv and load only the "Product" and "Price" columns.

Get Data → Text/CSV → Select Sales_Data.csv → Transform Data → Choose Columns (Product, Price) → Load.

7. How would you change OrderDate to a date format during import?

Transform Data → Select OrderDate column → Data Type dropdown → Date tanlash.

8. What is the difference between "Load" and "Transform Data" in the import dialog?

Load → Ma’lumotni darhol Power BI’ga yuklaydi.

Transform Data → Power Query Editor’ni ochib, ma’lumotni tozalash/formatlash imkonini beradi.

9. Why might you see an error when connecting to a SQL database? (Name one reason.)

Noto‘g‘ri server nomi yoki autentifikatsiya ma’lumotlari.

10. How do you replace a data source after importing it?

Home → Transform Data → Data Source Settings → Change Source…

11. Write the M-code to import only rows where Quantity > 1.

m
Копировать код
= Table.SelectRows(Source, each [Quantity] > 1)
12. How would you change the data source if Sales_Data.csv changed?

Data Source Settings → Change Source orqali yangi fayl manzilini ko‘rsatish.

13. Troubleshoot: Your CSV import fails due to a "mixed data type" error—how do you fix it?

Power Query’da ustun tipini Text yoki korrekt turga majburan o‘zgartirish, so‘ng kerakli turga konvertatsiya qilish.

14. Connect to a live SQL database with parameters (e.g., filter by year).

Power Query’da Manage Parameters orqali yil parametrini yaratish, so‘ng SQL query ichida WHERE YEAR(OrderDate) = @YearParam qo‘llash.

15. How would you automate data imports using Power BI and Power Automate?

Power Automate’da Scheduled Flow yaratib, manbadan ma’lumotni yangilash va Power BI dataset’ini Refresh Dataset action orqali avtomatik yangilash.
